SPLUNK C3M CLOUD CONTROL APP - CLOUD SECURITY POSTURE MANAGEMENT
 
RELEASE VERSION
------------------
C3M Cloud Control Version 1.0.0
 
OVERVIEW
------------ 
C3M Cloud Control is an API based cloud security posture management and compliance assurance platform that offers enterprises complete cloud control through actionable cloud security intelligence across Amazon Web Services, Google Cloud, and Microsoft Azure cloud environments. With C3M Cloud Control, organizations can stay secure by enforcing security best practices, detecting misconfigurations and threats, rightsizing excess privileges, and auto remediating deviations from defined security policies.
 
C3M Cloud Control Application gives enterprises the ability to leverage most of the Cloud Control features from within their Splunk subscriptions. The Cloud Control Application comes with a set of pre-defined dashboards that help SOC, Compliance, and IAM teams analyze, report, and respond to cloud security incidents in their Splunk instance. Linkbacks are given to C3M Cloud Control for use cases that may not fall under the purview of this integration.
 
As part of the setup, C3M Cloud Control customers will set up a Splunk Integration in their C3M Cloud Control Web Console that will facilitate data streaming to Splunk.
 
USAGE
----------
Policy Summary
The Policy Summary dashboard provides a security posture of your cloud accounts across multiple cloud providers. You can drill down to a specific cloud provider like AWS, GCP, Azure, or to a particular cloud account to check the security posture.
 Info: A policy in C3M is a security best practice defined for the supported resource type. 

Compliance Summary
The Compliance Summary dashboard shows the compliance of your cloud account's security configurations to various standards like NIST, ISO, HIPAA, CIS, GLBA, GDRP, FedRAMP, etc.
 
Policy Center
The Policy Center screen shows the actual evaluation of policies with passed and failed resources. You can use the top-level filters to narrow down the assessments based on the cloud provider, cloud account, severity, compliance status, security standard controls, and resource type. And you can also click on any violating policy and check the violating resources. 

Compliance Center
The Compliance Center screen shows the evaluation details of various security standards and their passed and failed controls. You can use the top-level filters to narrow down the assessments based on the cloud provider, cloud account, standard name, and control ids. And also, for each standard on mouse-over on failed controls, you can see the violating controls. 

Inventory Summary
Inventory Summary gives an overview and compliance of all the discovered assets across multiple cloud providers and cloud accounts. You can use the top-level filters to narrow down the asset details based on the cloud provider & cloud account. It also provides a geographical representation of the discovered resources and their compliance.
 
REFERENCE
--------------
C3M Documentation - https://www.c3m.freshdesk.com