Introduction
------------
Wereshark, Inc.'s Blue Shark apps allow you to visualize and report on
Blue Coat(R) ProxySG(R) appliance logs forwarded to Splunk!

Blue Shark Basic edition provides several critical reports every Blue Coat
ProxySG admin needs.

As an upgrade to Blue Shark Basic edition, Blue Shark Professional
provides features to fully-enable your Blue Coat ProxySG investment with:

- Splunk/CIM and W3C/ELFF normalization for all built-in formats, such as:
bcreportercifs_v1, bcreportermain_v1, bcreporterssl_v1, bcreporterstreaming_v1,
cifs, im, main, mapi, ncsa, p2p, squid, ssl, streaming, surfcontrol,
and surfcontrolv5
- Quick and easy custom report and dashboard development
- Saved settings, filters and search controls
- Geo-location for internal/external network sites, ProxySG device meta-data,
and protocol status code enhancement
- Datamodel acceleration tuning for high-performance environments

Coming soon, Blue Shark Enterprise will allow you to setup normalization rules
for multiple custom Blue Coat log formats and devices and can map any Blue Coat
ELFF field setting into the Splunk Common Information Model (CIM) format.

Once the data has been properly normalized into the Splunk CIM data model,
Blue Shark provides canned reports and dashboards bringing immediate value
to your organization.


Installation and Upgrade
------------------------
Download the Wereshark_Blue_Shark_<version>.spl package and use standard
Splunk install or upgrade procedures as documented by the Splunk admin guide.
        

Support and Documentation
-------------------------
All versions of Blue Shark have in-product contextual documentation via the
various '?' icons located on each dashboard/screen.

In addition to the in-product help, we provide support in the following (3)
ways:

1. Email support: Simply email your inquiry or request to:

support@wereshark.io

2. Shark Frenzy: Our user forum located at:

http://www.wereshark.io/forum/

Anyone may register and browse the categories and topics. Registered customers
will have access to additional categories and topics.

3. Shark Shiver: Our ticketing system to capture and track issues, located at:

http://www.wereshark.io/support/


Misc
----
For more detailed information, support, upgrades, offers and other news, please
visit the Wereshark web site at the following URL: 
        
http://www.wereshark.io

