Distiamo by Arduino Pro

Distiamo is a solution for managing Social Distancing and Contact Tracing.
The system aims to detect and track contacts between people in an environment and give feedback to the tacked persons
when they break a Social Distancing rule and allow analysis of contacts data for tracing an infected relationships.
The system involves equipping each person to be monitored with a Tag capable of detecting and emitting a Bluetooth signal.
This Tag will be able to interact with other Tags of the same type and with a series of other Bluetooth devices,
called gateways and locators, to detect and collect, in a centralized system called Management App, the contacts
between the people who wear them.
The Management App will allow the monitoring and export of data as well as an interface for adjusting the technical operating parameters of the system.
The Distiamo solution is composed of two different technical approaches called Coarse Grained and Fine grained.
They can be mixed together to implement a Hybrid solution.

The Management App is a Splunk Enterprise based application that represents the central point of control and analysis of the system.
It can be deployed on premise or on cloud on top of a Splunk Enterprise instance.
It is able to dialogue with Gateways or Locator hardware components.

Ingestion of Contacts data is performed through an HTTPS event collector that allows an external system to push
data into the system according to a predefined message structure.
The access control is managed by the platform through a Token generated by the system.

Contacts data ingested through this endpoint is indexed into a Splunk index (app_contacts_tracing) and mapped into a data model (arduino_covid_datamodel).
All the query and analysis of contacts is performed on top of this data structure.
Tag status data is ingested into the same index but it is mapped to another data model (arduino_covid_tag_status).

The app exposes an endpoint for Gateways and Locators in order to get configuration parameters to be transmited to the Tags or to be used in the device itself.

The app depends on Arduino hardware to be connected to the system in order to gather data to be process and provide configuration data to the system.
One of the dashboard adopt the open source d3-force library (https://github.com/d3/d3-force).

After installing the app create an index with ID app_contacts_tracing.

The app was developed by Moviri for Arduino.

For support contacts: andrea.catozzi@moviri.com