Aerospike App for Splunk 
----------------------------------------
	Author: Sachin lokulwar
	Author: GSLAB
	Version/Date: 1.0/
	Has index-time operations: false
	Supported Splunk Server: 6.2.3


Introduction
------------
#Describe your application here.

The Aerospike App for Splunk allows Splunk® Enterprise administrator to monitor Aerospike Cluster.

Aerospike App for Splunk can collect run-time statistics from every node within the Aerospike cluster.

This app provides general health monitoring reports, statistics, dashboards and alerts for Aerospike Clusters.

Key features
Real time as well as historical monitoring of cluster nodes,Namespaces and Cross datacenter replication (XDR).
Load on Cluster Nodes(Throughput)
Memory stastics
Disk statistics
Latency
Input/output statistics 
Alerts
Changing Clusters or Nodes


Installation
------------
#Describe how to install your application here (if applicable).

Hardware requirements :

The Aerospike App for Splunk supports the following server platforms in the versions supported by Splunk Enterprise:

    Linux, Unix, CentOS, Ubuntu and Debian

    Windows 7 and 8

Software requirements :

To function properly, Aerospike App for Splunk requires the following software:

     python 2.7

Splunk Enterprise system requirements :

This app runs on Splunk Enterprise version as a result this app is available for Splunk Enterprise users only and it runs within the Splunk Enterprise monitoring system Splunk system requirements are can be seen on (http://docs.splunk.com/Documentation/Splunk/latest/Installation/Systemrequirements).


Installation stape:


1. Make sure that Splunk (6.2.3 or above) is running.
2. Login to Splunk with Administrator credentials.
3. Go to the Apps tab.
4. Go to 'Browse more apps' page.
5. Search for 'Aerospike App for Splunk'.
6. Click on the 'Install' button.
7. Stop the Splunk server by running $SPLUNK_HOME/bin/splunk stop.
8. Start the Splunk server again by running $SPLUNK_HOME/bin/splunk start.
9. Access the Aerospike App for Splunk from Apps list. If you are doing this for the first time, you will see a Setup page.
10. On the Setup page, enter valid Seed node address of aerospike node and click on 'Save'.

Usage
-----
#Describe how to use your application here.

 On launching this app for first time, it redirects the user to setup page. From setup page you can provide IP address of any connected nodes present within the aerospike cluster. This seed node acts as a gateway for getting all Aerospike statistics.

What is in the app:

Homepage : Shows some important charts generated from aerospike statistics like Memory Usage, Disk Usage, Reads per second(RPS), Writes per second(WPS), Connected nodes, Namespaces etc. Additionally it also shows the latency charts of all connected nodes within the cluster.

Statistics : Shows all statistics related to Aerospike Nodes, Namespaces and Cross Datacenter replication also commonly known as XDR.

Setup: Allows the user to change the monitoring of a cluster to a different cluster by provisioning the IP address of any connected node within that cluster.

Search : Allows the user to search any current or historical statistics generated by aerospike.

Alerts : Here we provide some predefined alerts like Memory Usage, Disk Usage ect. User can create custom alerts by selecting create option present on menu bar.

Dashboards : Here the user can create/define their own dashboards.  At first this section is empty allowing any user to create custom dashboards by selecting the Create option.


TODO:
-----
If you intend to upload this application to Splunk Apps, we strongly recommend 
that you update the app.conf file (located in your app's /default directory) 
with your name, a one-sentence description of your application, and the
version number of your application.
