Description:

	Download and install the Splunk app developed by Commvault to monitor the duration and the status of Commvault jobs. You can also monitor Commvault logs.

Install the App

    1) From the Commvault Store or splunkbase, download the Splunk app.
    2) Log on to the Splunk URL.
    3) From the Home page, click the settings button.
		The Apps page appears.
    4) Click Install app from file.
		The Upload app page appears.
    5) Browse to and select the Splunk app file, and then click Upload.

Before You Begin

    1) On the computer where the indexer peer nodes are configured, configure the receiving port.
		To configure the receiving port, from the Home page, navigate to Settings > Forwarding and receiving > Configure receiving > New Receiving Port.
    2) On the computer where the receiving port is configured, create a new index. You can also use an existing index if you have one on the computer where the receiving port is configured.
		To create a new index, from the Home page, navigate to Settings > Indexes > New Index.

Configurations

    * Set up the CommCell page: On the CommCell tab, enter the webserver URL. Enter the CommCell user name and password, and then click Add CommCell.
		Append the webserver URL with the IIS port number, such as <webserver_url>:<IIS port number>. The default port number is 81.
		
    * Set up the Commvault Clients page: On the Commvault Clients tab, select a CommServe client, and then click Submit. From the Unmonitored Clients section, select the CommServe client and other    clients to monitor. Click Monitor Selected Clients.
	
	*	Set up the Splunk Configuration page: On the Splunk Configuration tab, from the IndexName list, select the name of an index. Enter the IP of the indexer and the receiving port number. Click Submit.

		If you have not installed the Splunk software on the Commvault client computer, depending on the operating system installed on the client computer, enter the Windows or UNIX path of the Splunk forwarder software. You must enter a .msi file path for Windows and a .tgz file path for UNIX.

		If you have another Splunk software running on a client computer, configure the outputs.conf file to point the forwarder to the computer where Splunk indexer is installed. Also, enter the credentials of the Splunk software in the Forwarder Configuration Table. Ensure that this client computer is a monitored client.

Result

	On the Commvault Dashboard tab, you can see the pie charts of the duration and the status of Commvault jobs. Click the pie chart to get the job details. Click on a job ID to get the job logs.

Additional Information

	To view the events for troubleshooting, you can check the SplunkPlugin.log file in the SPLUNK_HOME/etc/apps/commvault/local folder.

Requirements
	Commvault software version: V11 with Feature Release 20 (or the most recent).