Splunk Add-on for WSUS

This app is designed to retrieve information from the WSUS database on a server for reporting purposed or use with Splunk's Common Information Model.

Installation

This app can be installed via Splunk's UI under the Managed App section of Splunk Enterprise.  This app should be installed on the machine performing the queries (such as Heavy Forwarder), but also should be installed the search head for the extractions.  It does not need to be installed on the indexer.

Configuration

The DB queries that have been built use the default name of the WSUS database SUSDB.  If this database name is not being used the SUSDB text can be replaced by the appropriate name in the $SPLUNK_HOME/etc/apps/TA_WSUS/local/db_inputs.conf file.

In order to make these queries work the Splunk DBConnect app (https://splunkbase.splunk.com/app/2686/) and in most cases the JDBC driver for Microsoft SQL Server (https://splunkbase.splunk.com/app/6150/) can be used to connect to the WSUS database.  The Splunk host performing the query must have access to the WSUS database.  It is recommended that the following steps be followed

1. Install Splunk DB connect app
2. Install the JDBC drive for Microsoft SQL Server (or appropriate JDBC driver)
3. Add a new identity to the DB Connect App that has read access to the WSUS database
4. Create a new connection to the DB Connect App to the WSUS database and which uses the identity in step 3
5. Install the TA_WSUS App
6. Open the DB Connect App and go to the Inputs tab.  Click on New Input
7. In the Input Configuration UI, select the connection created in step 4 and under catalog select the WSUS Database
8. On the right select one of the WSUS Add-on templates.  Ignore the warning about data being overwritten and you should be able to execute the query and return results.
9. Click the Next button and configure the input.  Do not change the sourcetype as it is used in the Splunk App for WSUS, an index for the data must be provided, but other fields outside of sourcetype can be updated as appropriate for your environment.
10. Save the updated input with the Connection info you provided in step 6.
11. Enable the updated input (disabled by default)
