Table of Contents

Application Description
Use Cases
Data Sources
System Requirements
Installation
Release Notes

APPLICATION DESCRIPTION

The IBM Z Common Data Provider Splunk application demonstrates
how to use Z operational data that has been streamed by IBM Z Common Data
Provider V2.1.0 from a z/OS-based IT operations environment to a Splunk 
environment.  This application runs on Splunk Enterprise and provides 
Splunk dashboards that show near real-time data from the z/OS system
log (SYSLOG) and from System Management Facilities (SMF).


USE CASES

The application demonstrates the Systems Dashboard for CICS Transaction
Server for z/OS, IBM Db2 for z/OS, and IBM MQ for z/OS data from z/OS SYSLOG
and SMF sources.  Using these dashboards, Splunk operators can quickly
visualize application performance and potential error conditions that exist
in the z/OS environment.

DATA SOURCES

The application provides visualizations of CICS Transaction Server for z/OS,
IBM Db2 for z/OS, and IBM MQ for z/OS data from z/OS SYSLOG and SMF sources
that are running on a z/OS system.  To enable the streaming of data from
these sources to Splunk, you must configure a policy in the IBM Z Common Data
Provider Configuration Tool for the following data streams:

* z/OS SYSLOG. In the "Select data stream" window, click Log Data > System Logs,
  and select the check box for the z/OS SYSLOG data stream.
  For this data stream, the Transcribe Transform must be configured with the UTF-8
  value, and the SYSLOG Split Transform must also be configured.

* SMF_030. In the "Select data stream" window, click SMF Data > Base Streams >
  Address Space, and select the SMF_030 check box.
  For this data stream, the Transcribe Transform must be configured with the UTF-8
  value.

SYSTEM REQUIREMENTS

IBM Z Common Data Provider V2.1.0 must be running on your z/OS system.

On the Splunk Enterprise server or Splunk heavy forwarder, the following 
IBM Z Common Data Provider components must be installed, configured, and running:

* IBM Z Common Data Provider Data Receiver
* IBM Z Common Data Provider Buffered Splunk Ingestion App

For information about preparing to send data to Splunk via the Data Receiver, see the documentation at:
https://www.ibm.com/docs/en/zcdp/2.1.0?topic=splunk-preparing-send-data-via-data-receiver

For information about configuring the Data Receiver, see the documentation at:
https://www.ibm.com/docs/en/zcdp/2.1.0?topic=data-configuring-receiver#dr_config

Note: Splunk HTTP Event Collector (HEC) is an HTTP API endpoint that allows you to 
send data directly to Splunk over HTTP or HTTPS. For more information about HEC, see the Splunk documentation.
If this feature is enabled on Splunk, Z Common Data Provider is able to send data directly to Splunk via
HEC instead of sending data through the Data Receiver as documented here: 
https://www.ibm.com/docs/en/zcdp/2.1.0?topic=psds-preparing-send-data-splunk-via-http-event-collector

Splunk Enterprise requirements

For information about Splunk Enterprise hardware and software requirements,
see the system requirements in the Splunk Enterprise installation documentation.

Splunk Enterprise versions

The IBM Z Common Data Provider Splunk application works with a release of Splunk Enterprise Version 7 or 8 
that is still supported by Splunk Inc.

Browser compatibility

The IBM Z Common Data Provider Splunk application is compatible with the same browsers as
Splunk Enterprise. For information about the supported browsers, see the Splunk Enterprise installation
documentation.

Add-ons

For the IBM Z Common Data Provider Splunk application, the following IBM Z Common Data Provider 
components must be installed and configured on the Splunk Enterprise server or Splunk heavy forwarder:

* IBM Z Common Data Provider for Data Receiver
* IBM Z Common Data Provider for Buffered Splunk Ingestion App

Data models

The searches in IBM Z Common Data Provider Splunk application do not require data models.

Live data

The IBM Z Common Data Provider Splunk application uses live data that is delivered
from a z/OS-based IT operations environment that is running IBM Z Common Data Provider V2.1.0.
An IBM Z Common Data Provider policy must be configured to stream z/OS
SYSLOG and SMF record type 30 data, as indicated in the previous section titled "DATA SOURCES".

INSTALLATION

Install the IBM Z Common Data Provider Splunk application in a single-instance environment.
The following information describes how to install the application in a Splunk Enterprise deployment.
You can install by using Splunk Web or from a downloaded file (ibm_cdpz_dashboards.spl).
You must also install the required add-ons, which are the Data Receiver and Buffered Splunk
Ingestion App components of IBM Z Common Data Provider.

Install the application by using Splunk Web

1. Log in to the Splunk Enterprise search head.
2. From Splunk Home, click the Manage Apps cog icon to open the Apps page.
3. Click Browse more apps, locate the application in the list, or type the name in the
   search box.
4. Provide your splunk.com credentials.
5. Accept the license terms.
6. Click Login and Install.
7. Click Done.
8. Restart Splunk services to complete the installation.

Install the application from a downloaded file

1. Log in to splunkbase.splunk.com
2. Download ibm_cdpz_dashboards.spl and save it to an accessible location.
3. Log in to the Splunk Enterprise search head.
4. From Splunk Home, click the Manage Apps cog icon to open the Apps page.
5. On the Apps page, click Install app from file.
6. On the Upload app page, click the Choose file button to locate the application.
7. Click Upload.
8. Restart Splunk services to complete the installation.

Install the required add-ons

To install each of the required add-ons, see the respective documentation, as indicated
in the previous section titled "SYSTEM REQUIREMENTS."

RELEASE NOTES

Version 2.1.0

August 17, 2021
