RQAware App for Splunk 
version 1.0
Copyright (C) 2017 Reliaquest Inc.

For documentation, contact Reliaquest Delivery Manager


Instructions:
To retrieve your RQAware threat list, please update the RQAware Lookup search with your appropriate customer number. Then enable that scheduled search. 

External Data Sources:
RQAware retrieves threatlists of domain names, IP Addresses and/or hostnames that will be used as csv lookups. 

Saved Searches
[RQ-SM-5Q - Outbound Communication from Critical Host]
#This rule is designed to detect an internal critical host with a communication to a known bad IP in the RQAware feed. It searches all of the Network Traffic src/dest ips to determine if a host has communication with a bad IP. Dependency on ES Network_Traffic Data model. 


[RQ-SH-5Q - Outbound Communication Over Data Transfer Port]
#This rule is designed to detect an internal host with a communication over port 20, 21, 22 to a known bad domain or IP in the RQAware feed. It searches all of the Network Traffic ports to determine if communication is done via transfer port. Dependency on ES Network_Traffic Data model. 


[RQ-SL-5Q - Inbound Exploit Attempt from Threat Host]
#This rule is designed to detect an external host in the RQAware domain or IP feed with an inbound exploit attempt against an internal host. It searches all of the IDS data's attacks to determine if a host has any exploit attempts. Dependency on ES Intrusion_Detection Data model. 



[RQ-SM-5Q - Multiple POST Events to Threat Host]
#This rule is designed to detect an internal host with post attempts to a bad domain or IP in the RQAware feed. It searches all of the Web data model's methods to determine if a host has any POST attempts. Dependency on ES Web Data model.


[RQ-SM-5Q - Outbound IDS to Threat Host]
#This rule is designed to detect an internal host with an outbound IDS communication to a known bad domain or IP in the RQAware feed. It searches all of the IDS data's attacks and actions to determine if a host has any malicious outbound attempts. Dependency on ES Intrusion_Detection Data model. 


[RQ-SH-5Q - Malware -> Outbound Communication to Threat Host]
#This rule is designed to detect an internal host that has detected Malware followed by outbound communication to a known bad domain or IP in the RQAware feed. It searches all of the Network Traffic communication and compares to a malware tracker lookup to determine if host has malware & communication to known bad IP. Dependency on ES Network_Traffic Data model. 


[RQ-SH-5Q - Successful Authentication from Threat Host]
#This rule is designed to detect an external host in the known bad domain or IP RQAware feed with a successful authentication to a host. It searches all of the Authentication data model's successful authentications to determine if an external host has any authentications to a internal host. Dependency on ES Authentication Data model. 


[RQAware Lookup]
#Saved Search that retrieves the RQAware threatlists. It uses the custom command 'getwatchlist' to make a call to an external server to pull down a comma delimi
ted list of known bad IPs.


Custom Command
getwatchlist - Getwatchlist is a custom search command for Splunk which will return a CSV formatted list from a URL. This is useful for creating lookup tables and keeping them up to date. 

Usage

Options for getwatchlist can be supplied via the search options passed in the search box, a configuration file, or a combination of the two.

The first argument passed to getwatchlist is the URL of the watchlist or the name of a profile in the configuration file. If a profile exists, it will be loaded first, and then options passed via the search command will be used to overwrite the stored settings.

Options are passed in a "key=value" fashion. Arguments that are passed and are not known arguments will be appended as custom fields. So if I add a field of:
spam=tasty
Each line of the CSV which is returned will have a column named "spam", with a value of "tasty".

If there are additional columns in the list which you would like to be output as well, you can tell the command which column, and what the name if it should be. To do this, use an integer (the column number you would like to include), and give it a name for the column. To to include column 3 of a list, and name the column "enddate", you would add:
3=enddate
To your command parameters or configuration.

Here are options which can be passed, or used in the configuration file:

categoryCol: The column number of any category field in the fetched file.

comment (default: #): The character which is used to denote a commented out line .

dateCol: The column number of any date field in the file which you would like to use for reference.

delimiter (default: \t): The delimiter field of the fetched file .

ignoreFirstLine (default: False): Some watchlists contain a header which is not commented out. If this is set to "True" this line 
will be ignored.

relevantFieldCol (default: 1): The column number (starting at 1) which contains the key value you would like to use .

relevantFieldName (default: ip_address): What you would like the field to be named in the CSV output (not the name in the fetched CSV) .

referenceCol: The column number of any reference field in the fetched CSV.

url: The URL of the file to be retrieved (HTTP, HTTPS or FTP).

authUser: Username to use for authentication (HTTP Basic or FTP)

authPassword: Password to use for authentication (HTTP Basic or FTP)

proxyHost: Hostname or IP of the HTTP proxy to be used for HTTP and HTTPS connections

proxyPort: Port for the HTTP proxy

Configuration File

Configurations are kept in files named getwatchlist.conf. An example of this file is in the /default/ directory of the application. It contains example profiles which are ready to use.

Any custom configuration items in the /local/ version of the .conf file will override or add on to any settings in the /default/ file, much like normal Splunk configuration.

Additionally, settings entered via the search command will override both the /default/ and /local/ settings.

The "globals" section of the configuration file can be used for proxy configuration. By using the globals section, the command will use those settings by default, but can be overridden using command or profile settings.
